---
layout: post
title: The mysteries of custom Blueprint nodes
---

During the development of my custom quest editor, Adventure, I’ve gotten very comfortable with creating custom nodes for both Blueprint and custom graphs. Since there is not much on the topic, I figured I could share my knowledge to the community. 

This blog post will only cover custom **Blueprint nodes** since a custom graph node is a different story.

If you want to expose functions from C++ to Blueprint, this post is way too overkill. You should check out [this](https://docs.unrealengine.com/4.27/en-US/ProgrammingAndScripting/Blueprints/TechnicalGuide/ExtendingBlueprints/) resource instead.

## K2Node and what are they?

Kismet was the first visual scripting language in the engine. It was first introduced with Unreal Engine 3, then Kismet 2 came along and turned into Blueprint, which is what we have today. So that is why you'll see K2 (Kismet 2) in some places of the engine. 

This naturally brings us to K2Node (Kismet 2 Node), the parent class for all nodes used for Blueprint graphs. Most of the nodes you see in the graph, inherits from **UK2Node_CallFunction**.

K2Nodes are very advanced Blueprint nodes that can go beyond the specifiers of [UFUNCTION](https://benui.ca/unreal/ufunction/) / [UPARAM](https://benui.ca/unreal/uparam/) and give the developer full control of how it behaves, but 99% of the time, the specifiers are enough.

A great example of a custom Blueprint node is all construct nodes such as **Spawn Actor From Class** and **Construct Object From Class**, which greatly reduces the spaghetti of Blueprint graphs.

Spawn Actor consists of two Blueprint nodes, BeginDeferredActorSpawnFromClass and FinishSpawningActor, and for each variable, you mark as ExposeOnSpawn, the Blueprint compiler generates another Blueprint setter node. So the execution order for a SpawnActor node is:

```javascript
BeginDeferredActorSpawnFromClass ->
Generated Blueprint node setters for ExposeOnSpawn variables ->
FinishSpawningActor
``` 
You can think of K2Nodes as subgraphs that can contain multiple nodes.

I'd suggest checking out **UK2Node_SpawnActorFromClass** as it is relatively straight forward with plenty of comments to understand what's happening.

## Lets make a custom K2Node

This post assumes you are familiar with Unreal Engine and C++, so I won't cover the class creation steps. But you need an editor module and a new class that inherits from UK2Node.

If you're just looking to make a better node for your already defined UFUNCTION, you can skip this step and jump to K2Node_CallFunction section.

**In progress...**